# 443. String Compression

Given an array of characters `chars`, compress it using the following algorithm:

Begin with an empty string `s`. For each group of **consecutive repeating characters** in `chars`:

* If the group's length is `1`, append the character to `s`.
* Otherwise, append the character followed by the group's length.

The compressed string `s` **should not be returned separately**, but instead, be stored **in the input character array `chars`**. Note that group lengths that are `10` or longer will be split into multiple characters in `chars`.

After you are done **modifying the input array,** return _the new length of the array_.

You must write an algorithm that uses only constant extra space.

**Note:** The characters in the array beyond the returned length do not matter and should be ignored.

&#x20;

**Example 1:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: chars = ["a","a","b","b","c","c","c"]
</strong><strong>Output: Return 6, and the first 6 characters of the input array should be: ["a","2","b","2","c","3"]
</strong><strong>Explanation: The groups are "aa", "bb", and "ccc". This compresses to "a2b2c3".
</strong></code></pre>

**Example 2:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: chars = ["a"]
</strong><strong>Output: Return 1, and the first character of the input array should be: ["a"]
</strong><strong>Explanation: The only group is "a", which remains uncompressed since it's a single character.
</strong></code></pre>

**Example 3:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: chars = ["a","b","b","b","b","b","b","b","b","b","b","b","b"]
</strong><strong>Output: Return 4, and the first 4 characters of the input array should be: ["a","b","1","2"].
</strong><strong>Explanation: The groups are "a" and "bbbbbbbbbbbb". This compresses to "ab12".
</strong></code></pre>

&#x20;

**Constraints:**

* `1 <= chars.length <= 2000`
* `chars[i]` is a lowercase English letter, uppercase English letter, digit, or symbol.



## Solution.

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int compress(vector<char>& chars) {
        int n=chars.size();
        int write=0;

        for(int read=0; read<n; ){
            char curr = chars[read];
            int count = 0;

            while(read < n && chars[read] == curr){
                read++;
                count++;
            }

            chars[write++] = curr;

            if (count > 1) {
                string cntStr = to_string(count);
                for (char c : cntStr) {
                    chars[write++] = c;
                }
            }
        }

        return write;
    }
};
```

#### Complexity

* **TC:** O(n)
* **SC:** O(1)&#x20;

